Everything Base

This is the base to the Everything system.  This sets up the install
directory and creates the basic database needed to "boot-strap" the
system.  Once the base is installed, you will need to install the
ecore nodeball.

Requirements:

here's whats required for Everything to work:

Perl (5.005 or 5.6)
Apache (1.3.6) with mod_perl module 
	(note-- you'll probably have to edit your http.conf) 
Mysql (3.22.27)

Currently the version numbers are what I'm running on my devel server.  Older
versions might work, but newer versions probably work better.  For more 
information about system requirements, check out the REDHAT_SETUP and/or 
DEBIAN_SETUP files.

Installation

(read QUICKINSTALL for the down-n-dirty scoop!)

There are two parts to installation: first setting up your machine to
handle Everything, second is installing sites.

to do the base install:

> perl Makefile.PL
> make
> make install   (as root)

to do the site-specific install

bin/install_esite <NEWDATABASE>

Running 'perl Makefile.PL' will ask you some questions about how you
want to install the system.  By default, it will install it on the
machine.  You will need to run 'make install' as root.

If you get errors when your run Makefile.PL about your modules, try installing
Bundle::Everything -- this should fetch the relevant modules from CPAN.pm.
If CPAN.pm doesn't work on your system, check out PERLMOD_SETUP for a list
of dependancies you'll have to download and install.  It's a long list, so
getting CPAN to work might be worth the effort.

install_esite will ask you a few questions (most of which can also be 
specified via the command line).  It will try to detect some things (such
as Apache's DocumentRoot directory) -- but you may also need to know where
some files are.  Please post any feedback on your experiences with the
installer to Everydevel.com

If you are only a mortal user on the system (no root access), you
can specify alternate directories to install where you have write
permissions.  Since you cannot copy the perl modules (Everything.pm
and the Everything directory) to the proper perl system directories,
you will need to copy them somewhere else and specify that directory
in the index.pl file by adding the line:

use lib "path_to_directory_that_contains_Everything";

before "use Everything::HTML".  Otherwise, the Everything modules
will not be found.  You will need to make similar changes to the scripts in 
/bin.  You /will/ need to have root database access for creation of databases.

After you have Everything installed, you may want to add the bin
directory in the Everything install to your path so you have access
to the maintainence scripts for your Everything system (nbmasta, install_esite).

Also see the various "setup" files.  You will need to make sure you have
the appropriate perl modules installed, along with making sure that
you have apache, mod_perl and mysql set up appropriately.

the files are:

DEBIAN_SETUP -- information on installing your system primarily with debs
REDHAT_SETUP -- also for other flavors of Linux.  Required packages
HTTPCONF_SETUP -- the lines you will need in your httpd.conf file for E to work
PERLMOD_SETUP -- a list of required perl modules

After you have installed a default database you will need to add the core 
system, as well as whatever nodeballs you want. 


Uninstall

> make realclean (as root)

Note that executing 'make realclean' will remove the perl modules for 
Everything.  After this is executed the Everything system will not exist.  
Don't execute it unless you really mean it.  I'm serious.

Other Information

For more information see http://www.everydevel.com

and of course, you can always ask for help/report bugs to <nate@oostendorp.net>


Nodeballs

What is a nodeball?  A nodeball is a "package" of nodes for your
Everything system.  Nodeballs are somewhat similar to RPMs or DEB
packages.  They allow you install specific functionality to your
Everything system.

The nodeball utility is nbmasta, which is in the scripts directory.  It's 
very simple to use:

nbmasta import (nodeball file or directory) DATABASE

nbmasta export "name_of_nodeball" DATABASE

-- by default, files with the .nbz extention are used -- but these files
are gzipped tarballs, so if you want to see the innards, merely
tar -xvzf them.

(Note: as of 1.0 nbmasta_old has been removed -- if you absolutely
need to use old nodeballs, d/l XMLold.pm and nbmasta_old which are included
in the old everything-0.9.1 distro)
